---
title: "When do you know it is time to let go?"
categories:
tags:
last_modified_at: 2023-03-25
image: 
  path: https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:828/format:webp/1*ewineW70mJxNN2VpT0opqQ.jpeg
  thumbnail: https://miro.medium.com/v2/resize:fit:828/format:webp/1*ewineW70mJxNN2VpT0opqQ.jpeg
---
When,

You’ve tried enough.

You’ve been treated in ways which have not been loving and healthy for you, enough.

You’ve had your heart broken enough to a point you now feel, you cannot trust just enough.

You’ve given time and space enough.

You’ve been ignored and taken for granted enough.

You’ve thrived in transparency, communicated enough and always been in doubt and a disbelief as a consequence.

You’ve succumbed to the toxicity of the relationship, and you’ve realized the utter futility of trying further.

You’ve witnessed an eroding self-esteem, self-respect and self-love, a degraded quality of life and a hampered growth of your self in constance.

You’ve failed to make sense out of it all.

You’ve finally realized that this time, it really isn’t about you, it’s about them and there is very little that you can control inspite of the massive unconditional love that you’ve been showering on them..

Then I feel it’s the time. It’s time you stop the hustle and accept. It’s time you look back and reflect. It’s time you introspect. It’s time you take a step back. Not because you don’t care, but because they don’t and no matter what you do, they won’t.

When you’ve given your all in, and yet they’ve been unaffected within, it’s time you let them go therein.

Life is short. You wouldn’t want to spend the half of it trying to convince people to love you or to respect you the way you deserve to.

Quit before you lose yourself in the process of valuing someone too much.

Let the logic prevail when the heart ails.

This year has found me in the role of the student on so many occasions: pushing and encouraging me to let go of old narratives and painful pasts.

This year has inspired me to work harder at letting go of self-loathing, insecurities, hurtful people, unrealistic expectations and timelines, comparing myself to others, and obsessively worrying about things far beyond my control.

I owe it to myself to be more kind to me.

Everyday, I am consistently reminded to embrace the present and all it has to offer: a new opportunity to begin again. No matter how much I may stumble on this journey of letting go, the present is always here to remind me that I don’t have to stay stuck on yesterday, or worry about what will happen tomorrow.

I trust that this opportunity is open for you to receive it too.

Everyday we have a choice to keep holding on just a little bit longer, or conclude that today is the day we will finally let go.
